Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Vice President of
Interactive Media Group and
all the rest of the fun stuff,
Tim Schaaff.
Welcome.
So all the other fun stuff
that Bill was referring to is,
in addition to QuickTime,
I'm responsible for Core Graphics,
Quartz Extreme, that kind of stuff,
QuickDraw, the printing technologies,
all the audio and music stuff.
So if you have comments or feedback
you'd like to give me during the week,
feel free to stop me and
let me know what you think,
and I'll do my best to attend
all the other feedback sessions
related to those things so you can
let me know what's on your mind.
Today we're going to
talk about QuickTime.
So let's start with QuickTime 5.
QuickTime 5 has been in the
market for just over a year,
and it's been a really exciting year.
We've had a lot of success
with QuickTime so far.
In our first year,
we've downloaded over 100
million copies of QuickTime 5.
This is really remarkable.
QuickTime has been in the marketplace
for a long time now and over those years
we have been able to develop a very
large body of applications and tools
and so on to support the technology.
We've got thousands of
applications in the market.
We've got tens of
thousands of CD-ROM titles.
Thousands of enhanced music CDs,
and there are more than 160 digital
cameras in the market today that
ship with QuickTime installed.
What's interesting about this is that
virtually every major manufacturer of
digital cameras ships with QuickTime now.
And over half of those are shipping
cameras that actually create
QuickTime right in the camera itself.
So this is pretty neat.
QuickTime is making its way
far and wide in the world.
We look at our statistics for Apple.com,
the QuickTime web pages.
We're seeing over 1,300,000
QuickTime page views each and every day.
People are going there to find
content and check out the download
pages and so on and so forth.
We're getting more than 300,000 new
installs of QuickTime each and every day.
This is a very interesting statistic.
So we went back and we analyzed
the data about where customers who
have come to get QuickTime from
the download pages had come from.
Presumably, the idea here is that if
you're coming to get QuickTime,
you're probably on a site
that's got QuickTime content.
Otherwise, why would you need to
be at the download page?
When we did the analysis and traced
back to see where people had come from,
we found that on every single day,
we're averaging over 28,000 different
websites that are directing people to
the Apple download page for QuickTime.
It's really incredible.
Now, we've been talking about what's
going on with the client,
but we're also very involved
in developing the other
end of the food chain.
It's the server side of the product.
And since we introduced this
product into the marketplace,
we've had over 400,000 people download
the QuickTime streaming server.
The server is being deployed and used
by all of the biggest companies who
really are providing the backbone and
the infrastructure and all the equipment
that the Internet runs on today.
So we're very, very happy about this.
And a large part of what makes this
project a successful undertaking is
the fact that Apple decided from the
beginning to make the QuickTime streaming
server an open source project so
that you and lots of other companies
could go and get the technology
and help us evolve it and move it
forward and deploy it in ways that we
wouldn't have been able to think about.
So we can say today that
truly QuickTime is everywhere.
It's great.
So that's a quick update on QuickTime 5.
As you know,
QuickTime 6 is available in your Jaguar
seat and we'll be talking about that a
little bit more later in the show today.
So let's go back and talk a little
bit about the beginnings of QuickTime.
This is an important thing to understand.
QuickTime was introduced in 1991,
as most of you know,
and it started with a very simple idea.
We were thinking that it would be a
lot of fun if you could take video and
work with it on your personal computer,
and you didn't have to have any
special purpose hardware to be
able to manipulate the media,
but that you could write software
and use the PC processor to be able
to deal with the video right there.
Add?
Sure.
We'll do this once every
five or ten minutes today.
Cool.
Now we have a worldwide broadcast.
Sorry about that.
That sounds better already.
As I said,
we started with a very simple idea:
use the personal computer to be able to
play and manipulate the video without
requiring any special purpose hardware.
This was a very modest beginning.
Can we have the audio on that?
All the pain of an ailment
commonly known as stage fright.
So this is the classic
postage stamp video,
a very modest beginning.
As we thought about the idea of playing
video and combining that with audio,
we very quickly moved on and made
connections with lots of other kinds of
media and lots of other ideas for what
to do that all make sense as you start
to develop a complete system for building
and manipulating media on your computer.
Rather than just building a big
application that would be able
to perform all these functions,
the team had a couple of really profound
ideas that they brought to the table
that have influenced where QuickTime has
gone over the years and really talked
to why it's been so successful today.
The first idea was rather than building
an application that would be able to do
a lot of stuff but would really only be
accessible to the application developers,
provide an architecture that would
be able to be used for anyone to
integrate media into their applications,
provide an architecture that had a
component-based architecture that would
be able to grow and evolve and scale
over time as the ideas about what was
important changed and as the processing
power of the systems around it changed.
The second big idea was to
be able to build the system
Being prepared to manipulate media and
perform functions that might not be
possible in real time on the processors,
the hardware systems that were
available at the time that
the software was invented.
So the notion of being able to
support non-real-time processing
and being able to encompass and
describe media presentations that
were too big for the existing
hardware was a very fundamental idea,
and we'll see how that
paid off in a minute.
If we just look at where the
systems have evolved from
over the last ten or so years,
we see some pretty dramatic changes.
This first system on the
left here is the MacLC.
This was sort of the basic
system that Apple shipped when
QuickTime was introduced back in 1991.
16 megahertz, 68020 processor,
two megabytes of RAM.
That was for everything.
Kind of remarkable.
Had a hard drive.
This was a huge hard drive at the time.
The system cost $2,500 and the
video that I just played for you,
which was circa 1991 kind of video,
90 kilobytes per second.
Today we've got the G4 tower
running dual gigahertz processors,
tons of memory,
more than 2,000 times the disk capacity.
It looks a little bit more expensive,
although if you adjust
this for the inflation,
it turns out that the LC system
was actually a little bit more
expensive than the tower is today.
And you're capable of doing video on the
scale of about 20 megabytes a second.
I'd like to invite Tom Dowdy
to come up and give me a hand,
and we'll show you a little demo.
Great.
So as Tim said,
we're going to be showing a demonstration
right now of 20 megabytes a second video.
I don't know if you can
see here on the info panel.
20 megabytes a second.
This is what's called
uncompressed SD video in the
broadcast television market.
This is a standard definition signal,
digital signal that you would use
for normal television broadcasts
like you receive in your home.
It's uncompressed,
which means there's no compression
artifacts or anything like that.
This is the type, well,
I'll go ahead and play the
demo first and we'll have a
little more discussion about it.
So the interesting thing about this is
this is running on a stock computer.
We brought a FireWire drive
down here to the show,
took this video, transferred it to the
internal hard drive,
plugged it in, opened it up,
and played it.
A couple of years ago,
this same type of demo,
we would have had to
have a special computer.
It was set aside just for this purpose,
loaded up with tons of RAM,
special RAID array drive,
special SCSI 2 card plugged in,
stripped down the OS, turn off VM,
turn off networking, turn off AppleTalk,
turn off, hmm, printing,
because the other thing
you always had to turn off.
And then it would usually play.
And it would only play
if you're in full screen.
You'd never think of trying to do
compositing like dropping down a
menu on top of the playing video.
That was just completely unheard of.
So that's where we've come.
And now you can do SD video on a
normal system right out of the box.
This just shows off the power
of Mac OS X and Quartz Extreme.
Thanks, Tom.
Very cool.
I think it's safe to say that printing
is now turned on on that machine.
Oh, yeah.
Cool.
Okay.
Can we go back to slides?
Okay, so let's talk about
QuickTime in Mac OS X.
We introduced on Monday the
three pieces of QuickTime,
QuickTime 6,
QuickTime Streaming Server 4,
and the QuickTime Broadcaster.
Each of these technologies
is built into the OS.
It's built into Jaguar.
The seed that you received on
Monday contains all the components,
and we'll spend the rest of
the day talking about this.
Now, this really is built into
the operating system.
If we were to remove
QuickTime 6 from the OS,
the OS simply won't boot.
It's built in at a very low level,
and we've provided a number of different
ways for you to be able to access this
technology from your applications.
Of course,
there are Carbon API interfaces
to QuickTime.
There are Cocoa interfaces so that
you can access QuickTime functionality
from within your Cocoa apps.
We've got a very rich set of
functionality that you can access
if you're a Java developer.
And we've even got the system
built so that you can access the
QuickTime app from within the
command line tools within Terminal.
And now I'd like to ask Tom to
give you a little bit more detail
about that integration in a little
demo we call Terminal Extreme.
Thanks, Tim.
We've got demo two up.
So on the QuickTime team,
we were wondering what would happen
if you took the user friendliness
of a 1960s command line interface
and you coupled it with the
gratuitous multimedia of QuickTime.
And so the first thing that we had to do,
just prove this is terminal.
I've got to, like, type some commands in.
So the first thing, of course,
we had to do is when making a
QuickTime player for the terminal,
you have to remove all
the vowels from it.
So it's Q-T-P-L-Y-R.
Okay, ready to go now.
So we'll use the command line tool
and we'll feed it a movie here.
And we'll do some
processing with that movie.
There's a couple interesting things
to point out about this video.
I'll just let it go here as we talk.
A couple interesting things about here.
The resolution of this is actually
larger than the postage stamp
video that Tim showed earlier
that shipped with QuickTime 1.0,
although the color fidelity
of the character set there
is probably somewhat less.
This seems like a really silly demo,
but the interesting thing
to point out is this is real
QuickTime playing back a real video,
and we're performing the playback and
then doing image processing on the
movie and translating the luminance
values for each of the pixels into
a set of characters that we display,
and then we output the
VT100 escape sequences.
If you told me that in 2002,
I'd still be coding
VT100 escape sequences.
But that's what it does,
and it calls put char and
outputs into the terminal window,
and then they come up.
So this just shows that this
stuff is accessible anywhere.
You can write CGI scripts, Perl scripts,
command line tools to do processing,
image processing.
That sort of thing.
And it's all just built
right into the system.
We actually talk a little bit
more about this type of image
processing and processing using
QuickTime later today in the 602
video intensive application session.
Back to Tim.
Great, thanks Tom.
Can we go back to slides?
On Monday we introduced this new
technology we call Quartz Extreme.
And if you have anything
to do with graphics,
2D or 3D graphics, or video,
Quartz Extreme is going
to impact the work you do.
QuickTime is also affected by this,
and we've got some great things
going on that are going to make a
big difference in the performance
of QuickTime going forward.
And I want to talk a little bit
about a feature that we released with
QuickTime 5 and talk about how Quartz
Extreme impacts that feature today.
And then Tom's going to show you
a little bit about how it might be
affecting QuickTime down the road.
So in QuickTime 5 we introduced
this feature called Media Skins.
Media Skins are a very simple
way to be able to take a piece of
video and wrap a unique kind of
customized user interface around it.
You can attach buttons to it.
You can create these beautiful
non-rectangular shaped video clips.
And kind of simulate
that sort of device feel.
And people are using them
all over the web now.
And I'm going to show you a couple
of them that we like and talk about
how Quartz Extreme affects those.
Okay.
So we're just going to bring up
a real basic simple skin here.
Go ahead and activate it.
This is a QuickTime movie.
You can see that it's
running in QuickTime Player.
Thank you.
You can see that it has
a custom window shape.
And it has quite a bit of
animation graphics running
down the back side of it.
And what's implementing is a calculator.
If you thought Scott Forstall's demo
of the metal gradient being able
to be in the calculator was cool.
Well, there you go.
More calculator than you
probably ever wanted.
But the interesting thing to
note about this is it is a --
I'm trying to find the drag area.
There we go.
It is actually a movie.
You can see that there's this
drop shadow being placed in
there with Quartz Extreme.
And this is important when you
talk about these windows that
have very complicated shapes.
You need some assistance of a
sophisticated graphic system down
the lower levels of the OS to
make this really perform well.
And today,
you have -- people tend to produce
simpler skins with less complicated
edges to deal with this fact.
When you talk about a more advanced
system like Quartz Extreme,
then you can take advantage of this
and do these more sophisticated things.
So what are we going to get in the
future with this Quartz Extreme stuff?
Well, here's a quick demo we put
together of sort of where skins are
going to be going in the future.
So here's a movie playing back in
sort of a custom window you see here.
Drag it around.
But it would be kind of interesting if
we could take advantage of more advanced
features of the OS and integrate those
in with the skin and with the movie.
So...
Back off, fade out, and turn around.
This is actually a live movie.
Yeah, this is a live movie.
I don't know if I can
get the camera here.
[Transcript missing]
As you know,
MPEG-4 is a very rich standard.
It encompasses a wide
range of technologies,
and in many ways,
the technologies in MPEG-4
parallel the kinds of things that
have been in QuickTime itself.
You've heard Frank Casanova talk a
lot about this DNA-level relationship.
We're not entirely sure what that means,
but I think he must be referring
to the fact that QuickTime is the
basis for the file format for MPEG-4.
We're really happy about that.
It's a very powerful file format,
and we think it's going to be
able to serve MPEG-4 very well.
Now, apart from the fact that the
technologies that are built into
MPEG-4 are in themselves exciting
and powerful technologies,
the other fundamental thing
about MPEG-4 that makes it such
an interesting platform is the
fact that it's an open standard.
This means that there are companies.
Companies anywhere in the world
can get involved with MPEG-4.
They can get involved with MPEG-4 and
create products and focus on the parts
of the product that are most interesting
to them and know that there will be a
community of developers and products
who are helping to fill out that kind
of end-to-end chain of technologies
and products that customers need to
be able to do the work they want to do.
About a year and a half ago,
Apple got together with Philips and
Cisco and Sun and IBM and Casena,
and we created this industry group called
the Internet Streaming Media Alliance.
And the idea there was,
given this cool open standard called
MPEG-4... Let's try and take some
actions to try and accelerate the
adoption of this technology and others
to forward streaming on the Internet.
And over the last year and a half,
we've been able to pick up a
whole bunch of new members,
and we're doing a lot
of really cool stuff.
The very first work that we undertook
was to help standardize how you stream
MPEG-4 content over an IP network.
And that's been... That's rolled
out now and people are implementing.
We've got a lot of
interoperability work going on.
And if you're interested in this or
other things related to deployment
of streaming media on the Internet,
I would invite all of you to come and
look at the ISMA organization and see
if maybe there's a place for you there.
Now, ISMA is one organization
that's focused on MPEG-4,
but it doesn't just involve industry
fora like ISMA and MPEG-4 industry forum.
There are also other standards
bodies that are taking a very
close look at MPEG-4 in order to be
able to drive the next generation
of their technology focus areas.
Highlight a couple of these.
3GPP,
this is the emerging standard for next
generation wireless communications.
It's going to be a really big deal.
There's a lot of development going on
in Europe right now related to 3GPP.
There's a lot of development
taking place in Japan and Asia.
Pretty soon there will probably
be stuff happening in the U.S.
We're generally behind on
these things in the U.S., but
it's starting to move ahead.
And it's all based on MPEG-4.
It's very, very cool.
Motion JPEG-2000,
also based on the MPEG-4 file format,
which is in turn based upon
the QuickTime file format.
The next generation of digital radio.
All going to be MPEG-4 based.
Very, very cool.
And you can already see,
even at this early date,
the way that the open
standard is driving,
catalyzing growth in
whole new market areas.
So let's talk a little bit about
Apple's implementation of MPEG-4.
We have focused on three basic
aspects of the overall spec.
We've sort of kind of gone
for the sweet spot in MPEG-4.
Over time, I'm sure we'll add
additional functionalities.
But in this first release,
we wanted to focus on the
basics of audio and video,
compression, decompression,
and the integration with
the rest of QuickTime.
We've put a lot of effort into our
own MPEG-4 video codec technology,
and we've integrated into QuickTime so
it's truly a first-class citizen.
We've been working in a variety
of interoperability trials,
both with the MPEG-4
Industry Forum as well as with
the ISMA and other organizations,
and we've got a great
story to tell there.
And we've also been able to integrate
a lot of advanced functionality into
the encoder that you would normally
associate with a professional encoder.
But because we can
control the technology,
we've been able to offer these things
even in the free download of QuickTime.
So that's pretty cool.
On the AAC side, again,
an equivalent focus on quality.
We looked around and we said,
who's got the best
AAC encoding technology?
And it turns out it's Dolby.
No big surprise.
They've been focused on hi-fi audio
compression and delivery for a long time.
And they have truly awesome
technology for AAC encoding.
And we've integrated that technology
into the heart of QuickTime.
We've optimized the technology
so that it will run really fast,
so you can do all kinds of cool
things with it in your applications.
And it implements a true variable bitrate
encoding for the first time in QuickTime.
Last of all,
we wanted to integrate this into
QuickTime in a way that would ensure
that your applications will just work.
One of the things we're very proud of
in QuickTime is that over the years,
as we've added new functionality,
new capabilities,
we've worked very hard to
preserve API-level compatibility
with all of your applications.
And this remains true today
with the MPEG-4 integration.
So if you've got applications that know
how to process video and audio already,
you're going to be able to open up
these MPEG-4 files and work with
them without any additional work.
And this is because we've built
the importers and the exporters
leveraging the standard APIs that
you're already accustomed to.
Very cool.
So I'd like to ask Tom,
you've seen lots of playback demos.
I wanted to ask Tom to show a little demo
of how the encoding side of this works.
It's pretty similar to
what you've already seen,
but have a go.
All right.
So here we have a clip that
we got off of a DVD full of
public domain clip art movies.
So therefore we could use it here
without any copyright issues.
It's a DV stream of a panda.
So what do you do if you want to make an
MPEG-4 out of some video that you have,
a movie that you have,
within your application?
Well, it's the standard
QuickTime export dialog.
And when you're on a system
that's got QuickTime 6 in it,
there's a new option, moving to MPEG-4.
QuickTime has built into it the
ability to use export and provides
user interface to let the user
configure all the options they want
with respect to the MPEG-4 encoding.
I'm going to do a high data rate,
non-ISMA compliant MPEG-4 here.
Guides the user through the steps
of all the settings for MPEG-4.
Your application doesn't
have to be concerned with it.
Save it away here.
I don't need that backup.
So now QuickTime is going through
its normal export process,
doing the video encode,
doing the audio encode, saving it out,
and also converting the data
from the native format that we've
got right now into the special
MPEG-4 compliant version for ISMA.
So in Tom's demo, he's showing you how
to make an MPEG-4 file.
Of course, you can integrate MPEG-4
video or AAC audio right into
standard QuickTime movies.
It doesn't have to be an MPEG-4 file.
That's sort of what you
get for free in QuickTime.
That's right.
But this is actually a valid MPEG-4 file,
as they say.
Now I've got to go find my
thing after I created it.
PandaEats.mpeg4.
You can see it's an MPEG-4 file.
Just open it back up.
And there it is.
The Panda doesn't say a whole lot,
unfortunately.
He kind of just grumbles down there.
So there you go.
MPEG-4 encoding built into QuickTime.
So, can we go back to slides?
So if you've paid any attention at all
to what's been going on with MPEG-4,
you're probably aware of a little
bit of controversy revolving
around the MPEG-4 licensing.
Spent a few minutes talking about that.
[Transcript missing]
So this discussion is going to carry
forward and we'll see how it goes.
But the QuickTime engineering team
always has something to say about
these kinds of controversies.
And so we put together a little
video for your enjoyment this year.
We call it "Two Pennies
for Your Thoughts." If we
could run that video.
We need the demo machine, please.
So get demo two back up again.
I don't know if this is an example
of compelling content or not,
but we'll see.
This is in the classic
tradition of the stupid movie.
At Cinepeg 4 theaters,
change your change is good.
Yes,
we're making changes to better serve you.
Changes that allow us to
present more blockbusters.
Changes the press is noticing.
Changes that you'll notice too.
So we invite you down to
the local San Jose Cinepeg
multiplex to take in a show.
Arriving at the theater,
you'll meet our courteous and efficient
staff that will explain a few of the
improvements we're making for you.
Good.
You gotta sign the license agreement.
After signing the license agreement,
simply proceed into the theater.
For faster seating,
please be sure to sign the agreement
on the back of your ticket.
If you forget to sign, don't worry.
Our staff is on hand to
make sure you comply.
Dude,
you gotta sign the license agreement.
So take your seats and enjoy the
show along with other moviegoers who
understand that at Cinepeg Theatres,
we'll take care of you.
As you focus on enjoying
the presentation,
our management team will keep
track of all those pesky details.
You'll love our innovative
Cinepeg PayBreaks.
Unlike other theaters,
you'll find customer-friendly,
per-seat coin slots within easy reach.
You're part of the action.
If you're new to Cinepeg Feeders,
our helpful staff will point out
the procedures we've instituted
to guarantee the most enjoyable
and compliant viewing experience.
For those on a tighter budget,
enjoy our audio-only program
at no additional cost to you.
To help avoid unwanted expense,
our team is eager to assist.
At Cinepeg 4 Theaters,
we're committed to customer satisfaction.
You can terminate the
agreement at any time.
No questions asked.
Remember, at Cinepick 4 Theaters,
we're making changes for you.
from Wyoming, Alaska, Hawaii,
or continental United States.
Void were prohibited.
Animals were not harmed
during the testing of Cinepec
pay break technologies.
So that was two pennies
for your thoughts.
So things have been moving
forward on the licensing front,
and I'd say we are cautiously optimistic.
We've included all the
technologies in the seat of Jaguar.
We hope you'll take a look at that,
and we fully expect we'll be in
the marketplace with a GM product
before too much longer here.
So that's the MPEG-4 licensing situation.
Great.
Let's take a look at another
new item in QuickTime 6.
This is called JPEG 2000.
JPEG 2000 is sort of the next
generation still image format
follow-up to the JPEG standard
that everybody knows and loves.
And it has some unique characteristics.
First of all, it is 30% more efficient
than JPEG on average.
Supports both lossy
and lossy compression,
just like JPEG does.
Instead of being DCT-based
compression like JPEG,
it's now a wavelet-based compression.
This will provide sort of a reduction in
the blockiness that you associate with
JPEG when you've not got enough bits.
It's got the potential to
support very deep color,
sort of greater than 8
bits per pixel channel.
It's very cool.
It's got all kinds of features for
making more elaborate encodings to deal
with more sophisticated kinds of files.
In this new world of MPEG-4
licensing sensitivities,
we are aware that they are working
towards a royalty-free licensing model.
We fully expect this is going
to be a very important standard
for not only for still images,
but also for JPEG.
We're also looking at the possibility
of using the new generation of
JPEG-based compression to create a more
sophisticated version of the MPEG-4.
We're also looking at the possibility
of using the new generation of
JPEG-based compression to create a more
sophisticated version of the MPEG-4.
So now Tom's going to show us a
little bit about how that works.
Before he starts,
so this is a new codec technology that's
going to be built into QuickTime 6,
so you should be able to try this out.
It's not actually in the
Jaguar seed that you've got,
but we will provide an update at some
point here before too much longer,
and you'll be able to
play with this yourself.
Go ahead, Tom.
Okay.
So this very scary image was taken.
It was taken by one of
the QuickTime engineers
on the QuickTime team.
And this is the raw
Photoshop file uncompressed.
It's around 35 megabytes, I believe.
Pretty big.
Producing a JPEG 2000 picture from
QuickTime is as simple as exporting
and selecting the JPEG 2000 codec,
dialing in the quality
level that you want,
saying okay, and you're good to go.
So once again,
applications that support the standard
QuickTime export can just export
to JPEG 2000 as a brand new feature
and you can charge more money for
your application in the next update.
Similarly,
importing or opening JPEG 2000 pictures,
same deal.
If you support the standard
graphics importers,
you get the ability to open
those JPEG 2000 images.
So let's do some comparisons here.
Let's go with the medium quality first.
So classic JPEG here,
compressing that same image,
we've compressed it with a medium
level of quality down to 168K.
The JPEG 2000 file,
compressed with approximately
the same quality settings,
is smaller at 92K.
So let's open those two files.
So there's the JPEG,
and here's the JPEG 2000.
And I'm going to switch back and
forth between the two of them.
So this is JPEG 2000, that's JPEG.
That's JPEG 2000, and that's JPEG.
That's APIC 2000?
I feel like an optician here.
So, smaller files, same quality.
But if you want to crank the quality down
even further to make the file smaller,
here's JPEG with the least quality
compression that you can set with
JPEG as it's shipping in QuickTime.
It produces a 68K file.
JPEG 2000 produces a 56K file.
JPEG 2000 can actually,
it scales a little bit better,
so you can actually crank the
quality down even further.
But this quality setting,
while it produces a smaller file,
gives about the same
quality as JPEG does.
So here's the JPEG file.
And then the JPEG 2000 file.
So this is JPEG 2000,
and that's the JPEG now.
It's going to be a little hard to see,
but if you look at this red area of
the fish right here above the eye,
you can see, well, I can see,
some blocky-type artifacts that
are caused by the fact that
JPEG is a DCT-based transform.
JPEG 2000,
those artifacts go away because
it's a wavelet-based encode.
So, smaller file, better quality.
And that's JPEG 2000.
Great.
Back to slides.
So that'll be in the
upcoming QuickTime 6 release.
So that's what we're going to
cover for QuickTime 6 today.
I want to move on to some of
the other technologies that
we're putting into Jaguar.
QuickTime Streaming Server 4.
So I think I want to start
with this following quote here,
and I'll read this to you just
because it's a little bit hard to see.
After we spent weeks in arduous
testing and watching our
favorite movie over and over,
our numbers showed that Apple's
Darwin streaming server and QuickTime 5
player package deserves top honors.
Apple proved it could deliver a robust
server and client that performed well.
Its images beat the competition
over a range of bandwidths.
Best of all,
the software is free regardless of
which operating system you're running.
This was published in
Network Computing Review last month,
and they were comparing the
QuickTime streaming server to
the Windows Media server and to
Real Network's Real Systems server.
So that's quite an accomplishment.
We're really quite proud of this.
This is a testament not only to the
hard work that's gone on at Apple,
but of course,
since this is an open source project,
this is a testament to the hard
work of the community of developers
who have gotten involved with
QuickTime streaming server,
the Darwin streaming server, if you will.
And we're really proud of the fact
that we have a lot of people who
have helped move this forward,
have helped ensure that the server
would be available on virtually every
major operating system out there,
and we're pretty psyched about this.
QuickTime streaming server 4 introduces
a whole bunch of new features,
and I'd like to talk
about those a little bit.
Of course,
it starts with native MPEG-4 streaming,
so you would expect we're going
to support MPEG-4 in the client.
We're going to certainly
support it in the server.
It also supports MP3 audio streaming.
There's a new set of features that
we're going to be using in the future,
a new set of interfaces to allow
you to administer the servers.
We've made some improvements
to skip protection.
We've incorporated support
for instant-on streaming.
This is actually a feature that is
a coordinated development effort
between the client software and
the streaming server software.
We'll talk a little bit
more about that in a minute.
And then there have been a number
of performance enhancements.
With the QuickTime streaming server,
you can now drive around 4,000 modem
rate streams off of a single box.
And you're confident that you'll
be able to swamp pretty much any
network interface you can find.
So, I'll show you a little screenshot
here of the administration interface.
This is a really big deal.
If you're a company that's setting up
a large number of streaming servers,
you're going to have an administration
hassle if you have to go to every single
machine to figure out what's going on.
We've built into the streaming server
the ability to remotely administer
all the servers from a web browser,
and that's new for
QuickTime Streaming Server 4.
Let's talk about Instant On.
We demoed this as a client-side feature.
Tom's going to show you a little bit
more about how that works and talk about
the underlying technology there so you
can understand what's really going on.
Tom?
Okay.
Have at it.
Those of you who were at the keynote
saw this demonstration of Instant On,
but we're going to go over
it in a little more detail,
talk about what's actually going on here.
So first, we're going to open up a
classic streaming file.
And you can see that we come up,
we have the standard queue buffering.
There's a two-second
buffering that takes place,
and then the video starts to play.
Now, the reason the buffering goes on is
to deal with the fact that networks
don't have a continuous bandwidth.
As the movie is coming across,
there's going to be
hiccups in the network,
glitches, and the data's going to need
to get either retransmitted or
recollected from the network.
And that buffer gives the computer,
the client,
enough time to deal with those glitches,
smooth them out,
and give you a decent playback.
Now, the downside to that is that when
you move someplace else in the movie,
you get another two-second delay,
because once again,
this buffer has to be built up
before the playback can begin.
So this is sort of classic
QuickTime streaming with buffering.
offering.
So now, with the instant-on technology,
you get a different user experience.
Open up the movie, and it's playing.
Right away, no buffering.
You decide you want to go
someplace else in the movie,
so you click, and you're there.
Once again, no buffering whatsoever.
This is pretty neat.
You can sort of click around some more.
Just want to be mean to the server and
make it seek all over the hard drive.
The really cool thing is this.
You grab ahold of the thumb,
you scrub to any place in the
Just drag it around back and forth.
This is a streaming movie.
This stuff's all being
streamed dynamically as we go.
It's a very different experience.
In fact, it's so different that the
first time I saw this demo,
I thought the person who was
demonstrating to me was lying.
It must have been a local movie,
because there's just no way you
could be doing this over the network,
right?
There's no way that can work.
Well, it can work,
and the reason is the technology that was
built into QuickTime Streaming Server 4
that does the skip protection feature
can over-buffer the data on the client.
That is,
download data at times of network lulls
at a faster rate than the movie requires.
The Instant On technology
takes advantage of that.
It aggressively uses the fact that the
data is coming down faster during these
cases of over-buffering and provides you
with instant playback without waiting
for the buffer to fill up all the way.
It's able to play back
right away with no delay.
So that's how Instant On works,
and it's a built-in
feature of QuickTime 6.
Great.
Thanks, Tom.
So that's a really quick view
of what's going on with the
QuickTime streaming server 4.
So let's talk about live broadcasting.
When we built the streaming server,
one of the main reasons we wanted to
have a server was because we wanted
to be able to host live broadcasts.
And so you need to have a server in
conjunction with a live broadcast because
you've got to have some technology
that will allow you to replicate
the streams out to a large audience.
And as if you've ever watched
Steve Jobs over the Internet,
you may be aware that we are occasionally
known to do some fairly large webcasts.
In fact, from the data we have,
we're pretty sure that we're doing
the largest webcasts that anybody
is doing on the Internet today.
We get reports back from the folks
who host the streaming servers
during these keynote events,
and they tell us that their peering
partners are complaining to them
because all the broadcasts are
being broadcast on the Internet.
And all the bandwidth that we're
driving through networks like
Akamai and Digital Island and so on,
those networks are driving so
much bandwidth that we're having
an impact on the performance
of the Internet as a whole.
It's really quite remarkable.
[Transcript missing]
I'll bring up the standard
sequence grabbing dialog.
And first we're going to
select-- I'm actually not
sure which of these two it is.
Which one do we have?
OK.
First we're going to select the iBot,
which is-- Tim said you
can get it for about $77.
Pick that as one of our inputs.
And then if you have a
little bit more money,
you can get this really
cool Sony camera here.
That's about $1,000.
The neat thing about it is
it's got a 12x optical zoom,
which is software controllable,
although I'm controlling
it with the button.
You know this is going to be a good demo.
Okay, now, stay real still, Tim.
All right.
Show me the love, Colin.
There's the love.
But the really cool thing about this,
okay, so now you can, like, move around,
Tim.
The really cool thing about this
is because this is uncompressed
video coming in a YV format,
we don't have to do much processing
to display it on the screen.
We've got gobs of processing power
left over to do full motion on both
of the images and on the effect
that's cross-fading between the two,
or in this case,
heart-fading between the two, I guess.
So that's IADC built into QuickTime 6.
Thanks, Tom.
Okay, go back to slides.
So as I said,
IIDC is going to be built into Jaguar,
built into QuickTime 6.
I think it's going to be
really cool technology.
So let's talk about the second
problem that we wanted to solve,
and that's the application,
the tool side of the equation.
We created this application
called the QuickTime Broadcaster.
It's built into the Jaguar
C that you've got on Monday.
We're going to make this
available to customers once the
product is finished for free.
You'll be able to go to the
website and download it.
So we think that's kind of a
breakthrough pricing model.
Let's talk a little bit about
the broadcast topologies,
if you will.
So there's basically three kinds of
broadcasts that we wanted to support.
The first one is sort of
the local area broadcast.
You want to have a video that
you can share with friends
in your work group area,
say a classroom or an office environment,
something like that.
This basically,
in this configuration you're talking
about the camera comes in to the
broadcaster application running on
the same computer that a server is
running that's able to replicate this
stuff out to a handful of machines.
If your network supports multicast,
of course you can multicast out
to a larger number of machines,
but most network environments aren't
really up to that level these days.
The second topology that's
important to support is sort of
what we call the enterprise model.
So this is sort of in a larger
kind of company context.
You've got a good network.
You want to do a real high quality video.
You're going to have one machine
that's dedicated to the video and game.
You're going to have one machine that's
dedicated to the video and coding.
And you're going to have another
machine that's running a dedicated
server that's able to replicate
out to thousands of clients.
The third topology is the topology
that has no limits as to how much money
you can burn on the content delivery.
The basic idea is here you'll
have one machine that provides
the encoding services through
the QuickTime Broadcaster.
And then you basically inject that
stream into any of a number of
different content delivery networks.
At Apple we tend to use Akamai.
But there are others
that you can work with.
Deploying servers all over the world.
Looking at all the load balancing
kinds of considerations.
And with that kind of a model you
can literally reach tens of thousands
of simultaneous viewers at a time.
Probably more if you're willing
to cut down on the bandwidth.
The limits there are
basically your budget.
You could spend a million dollars
in the blink of an eye if you're not
careful and you have a popular stream.
And the ability to deploy enough
servers around the world to be able to
scale for that kind of an application.
So the Broadcaster itself
has a ton of features.
I'm not going to go through
all the details here.
But let me highlight
just a couple of things.
Of course the Broadcaster has been
optimized and tuned to support MPEG-4.
But it supports all the other
QuickTime codecs as well.
So if you've got an application that
demands some other kind of video,
that's perfectly fine.
It uses industry standard
protocols for streaming the video.
We're leveraging the
capabilities of the Broadcaster.
We're using the capabilities
of QuickTime 6 to provide
a reliable transport.
That means that you can
transport your broadcast,
you can transport media from the
Broadcaster to the replication servers
over a reliable transport mechanism.
Even though the replication service
itself may be sent out over UDP where
you're going to experience packet loss.
I mean the last thing you want to have
is packet loss on the link from the
Broadcaster to the replication servers.
So we've provided capabilities
in QuickTime 6 and in the
QuickTime Broadcaster to be able
to form a reliable connection
between those two machines.
Another feature that's in here
that I think is real important
and my personal favorite feature
is this thing we call Instant VOD,
Instant Video On Demand.
With Instant VOD, what you get is during
the live broadcast,
you can actually have that stream
being recorded to the hard drive so
that as soon as the broadcast is over,
you've got a hinted movie that
you can post to the streaming
server for folks who weren't
able to join the live broadcast.
You don't have to have that
multi-hour delay or whatever it may be
encoding the content after the fact.
You'll be ready to go as soon
as the broadcast is done.
It's very cool and
nobody else is doing it.
So let's go and take a quick look at
the software and do a brief demo there.
Tom.
Yeah, so we have demo one up.
So this QuickTime Broadcaster,
which is on the CDs that you got,
the Jaguar CDs you got.
As Tim said,
one of the nice things about this
is we've really tried to make it
easy to get going with broadcasting.
So the QuickTime Broadcaster
has a number of presets already
in place for standard types of
encoding that you might want to do,
and you can also create your own.
You can also do custom settings
if you have some specific needs.
And all you need to do,
bring up the broadcaster and
click the broadcast button.
And there you go, you're broadcasting.
So...
This camera over here.
Now we do an incremental preview here.
We don't preview live because we
figure there's not a lot of point
in taking up all the horsepower
of the computer on a preview,
especially if the broadcaster
is off somewhere in a closet and
you're not looking at it anyway.
You can also turn that off if
you don't even need to see it.
And information is provided here about
what's going on with the broadcast,
how much CPU load is being
used with the ENCODE,
how many people are
tuned into the broadcast,
the data rate that you're using,
how long the broadcast has been going on,
and so forth.
Okay.
If you need to do additional settings,
show the details,
and you have full ability to configure
all the inputs of the video and
the audio and the network settings.
If you're the kind of person who
likes to tweak which broadcast ports
are being used for your multicast,
you can set those things yourself.
So there's lots of ability to
customize this and do the things
that are important to you.
One of the really
interesting uses of this,
Tim said that you can use any codec
you want to use to do the broadcast.
One interesting way to use the
broadcaster is to do relatively
low frame rate broadcasts of
less lossy types of compression,
such as JPEG or JPEG 2000,
where you might be doing slides
or things on a whiteboard,
where it's not important that
you have a high frame rate,
but that you want the fidelity
of the images to go across.
So you can customize this
at a very low frame rate,
set JPEG as your compressor,
and you're ready to go there.
And so that's the QuickTime broadcaster.
Show the other end.
Are you going to show the
reception end of it or not?
Oh, do you want to see us receiving it?
Nah, we saw that before in the GL demo.
You've seen it.
They all look the same.
So can we go back to slides?
So that's the QuickTime broadcaster.
So we've reviewed QuickTime 6,
we've reviewed
QuickTime Streaming Server 4,
and the QuickTime broadcaster.
These are all built into Jaguar.
They're on your disk,
so we invite you to go
and take a look at those.
In the coming months,
we're going to be refining it,
fixing the bugs.
We'd like to hear about any bugs
you think you've encountered.
It's going to be great.
Now,
I've only been talking about Mac OS X.
In fact, I've really only been
talking about Jaguar today.
QuickTime 6, of course,
is widely distributed
for Windows clients.
In fact,
approximately 90% of the downloads we
provide are going to Windows clients.
We're not abandoning the Windows clients.
We're not abandoning
Mac OS 9 clients either.
These are going to be a part
of the QuickTime 6 thing.
But this is kind of a Jaguar show,
so we wanted to focus on
those aspects of things today.
But fear not, it'll be there for the
other platforms as well.
There's one last thing
I wanted to talk about,
and that's a request that we
receive from many of you when
you come and talk to us about how
things are going with QuickTime.
By far, what we hear, by far,
the greatest challenge for many of
you is going back to your companies
and evangelizing QuickTime within an
organization that may be dominated
by Windows people or people who...
are focused on doing whatever
Microsoft says is the right thing to
do or have heard a lot about Real.
And your number one
request to us has been,
can you help us with the
internal marketing of
QuickTime within our organizations?
We've been listening to that,
and the marketing team has invested
a tremendous amount of energy
and time to put together a new
website just for this purpose.
You go to www.apple.com.com.
[Transcript missing]